Most of us are familiar with the saying. in my feelings. you may have even used it yourself. The phrase is so popular that it’s reflected in songs by chart-topping artists like singer Ella Mai and rapper Drake. You might also say you feel some type of way. which is an example of saying you’re in your feelings. but it is often reserved for describing something negative. But what are you really trying to say and why is it so important to be clear? First. let’s understand what feelings really are. Feelings. which reflect emotions. are a result of your body registering information from your brain. You will often experience a physical reaction. For example. a knot in your gut might be related to excitement or fear. while a fluttering in your belly may be a sign of nervousness. The reactions can be different for different people. A flushed face could signal embarrassment for some. but anger for others. Your feelings and your physical sensations ride in tandem. It’s important that you are aware of these sensations to determine what’s coming up for you. We’re often so in our heads and focused on what we’re thinking and not how we’re feeling. It’s no wonder: because so many of us are socialized to not express our feelings. we may never have learned how to be in touch with them. You may remember as a child—boys especially—being told not to cry after you scraped your knee. or having an adult tell you be a big girl if you express sadness or disappointment. Those people. even if well-intended. likely were trying to get you to stop expressing your feelings because of their own discomfort with what your emotions were bringing up for them. The phrase in your feelings might also be used as a coping mechanism. much like using the phrases it’s all good and I’mma just keep it moving. It’s a way to say something’s bothering me. but I’m not going to put my finger on it and by not doing that you cheat yourself out of really understanding what's going on with you. As a result. you will struggle to articulate the impact something has on you and to make it clear how you may need a situation to change. This may lead to you feeling stuck in a toxic relationship or in an unfulfilling job—because you haven’t identified or communicated what’s really bothering you. It takes self-awareness—listening to your body—to know how you feel. One of my goals as a therapist is to help clients become more fluent in how to interpret their feelings. You may have a hard time naming a feeling and say something like. He disrespected me. That’s not a feeling. so my reply to you might be. You think he disrespected you. But how does that lead you to feel? I would leave space for you to explore what’s coming up in your body. The feeling from being disrespected may be sad. or embarrassed. or pissed off. Here are three simple techniques you can use to better understand and express yourself whenever you feel like you’re in your feelings: Practice mindfulness. or awareness and curiosity without judgment. It can be as simple as five minutes of stillness and deep breathing. Pay attention to what you feel in your body when you have to work with a colleague who you generally try to avoid. or when you need to have a real talk with your partner. Mindfulness is a muscle. The more you practice it. the stronger and better it gets. Take note. Sometimes. I’ll encourage clients to jot down those physical sensations when they happen and note what was going on. The next time we meet. they share their experiences and I help them connect those physical sensations to the emotions they experienced. and how they influence their behaviors. Over time they will learn how to make the important connection between those sensations and their feelings. thoughts. and behaviors. Name your feelings. Ask yourself some questions and use a feeling chart. such as the Gottman Institute’s Feeling Wheel to help you explore the wide range of feelings that you experience but may not be able to identify whether that’s anger. loneliness. or another emotion. Or perhaps you're experiencing joy. and you want to be able to connect those dots. too. Maybe sitting in the park. having your toes in the sand at the beach or a certain food or smell makes you nostalgic. Take notice of what those joyful feelings feel like. where they come from. and learn how to stay in that space or get back there when you need to. Our feelings are there to provide us with information. The more fluent you are in that language. the better you will be able to discern the information that you’re receiving. This can help you be truer to yourself and respond in an authentic way. With practice. you can become fluent in the language of feelings.
